program.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "STEP CS Program"
image: /assets/images/campus.jpg
permalink: /program/
---

# Become a middle or high school CS teacher

Are you curious about becoming a middle or high school CS teacher in Washington state? We're creating a pathway for aspiring teachers to do exactly that. The program part of the University of Washington's existing 1-year Masters in Teaching (called STEP, short for [Secondary Teacher Education Program](https://education.uw.edu/programs/teacher/secondary){:target="_blank"}, which runs from Spring each year (starting in April), through the next Winter (ending in April). We're creating what's called an "5th quarter add-on" endorsement, which means that teacher candidates enroll in the 1-year degree, earns a first endorsement in math, science, social students, language arts, or world languages, then stay for an additional quarter to earn a second endorsement in CS.

## Do I have to have a CS background?

No. The only CS content knowledge we expect teachers to have is some preliminary exposure to programming, through an introductory programming course or some other source of experience. We will teach much of the CS content knowledge needed to teach a range of middle and high school courses; having more extensive CS experience will simply broaden your range.

## What courses does the endorsement include?

That additional quarter is all CS, including four courses:

* **EDTEP 577** _Justice and Equity in Computer Science Teaching_. This course covers foundational intersections between computer science content knowledge and issues of diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice. Addresses these issues in the computer science classroom, as well as society more broadly, developing critical consciousness of computer science and society. This course is taught by Professor [Amy Ko](http://faculty.washington.edu/ajko/){:target="_blank"}, who is an experienced higher education and high school CS teacher, but also a leading researcher in CS education.

* **EDTEP 590** _Teaching Computer Science in Secondary Schools_. This course develops skills in developing, rehearsing, enacting, and reflecting upon developmentally appropriate computer science lesson and unit plans. Students write learning objectives that consider prior knowledge and specific needs of a diversity of learners, developing skills to deconstruct and analyze lessons and plan the scope and sequence of longer units of study. Draws upon culturally relevant computing, project-based learning, and critical consciousness. This course is taught by Teaching Professor [Brett Wortzman](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~brettwo/){:target="_blank"}, who is an experienced high school and higher education CS teacher, as well as an extensive CS professional development provider.

* **EDTEP 574** _Assessment in Secondary Education - Computer Science_. This course Surveys approaches to formative and summative assessment of computer science knowledge from both equity and psychometrics perspectives, and impacts of assessments on identity, interest, self-efficacy, and mindset. Emphasizes deliberate practice on computer science assessment design and critique and the tradeoffs of assessment automation technologies in supporting learning. This course is taught by Ph.D. student [Jayne Everson](http://jayneeverson.com){:target="_blank"}, who has an experienced high school math, physics, and robotics teacher, and who is studying critical CS pedagogy.

* **EDTEP 602** _Field Experience Computer Science - Secondary_. Practice teaching computer science in a supervised middle or high school placement in partner schools and districts who are working to diversify the teaching field. Candidates critique their own practices and receive feedback on ways to align their practices with equity and justice teaching pedagogy. You'll be placed with a CS teacher and school in Puget Sound, likely in in one of our partner districts in Seattle Public Schools, Highline Schools, or Shoreline Schools.

# How do I get certified to teach?

By the end of the Spring, you'll take the [NES Computer Science exam](https://www.nestest.com/TestView.aspx?f=HTML_FRAG/NT315_TestPage.html){:target="_blank"}, which primarily covers CS content knowledge. Passing this exam certifies you to teach CS in Washington state. You'll have extensive support in preparing for this exam, including learning CS concepts in EDTEP 577 and study groups led by the teaching team.

# What about tuition and fees?

For the Spring 2022 and 2023 cohort (which began in Spring 2021), Spring quarter tuition, fees, and the NES exam fee will be covered by a grant the team has received from the National Science Foundation. The team is seeking funding to subsidize future cohorts.

Commit message:

Added how to apply section.

program.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "STEP CS Program"
image: /assets/images/campus.jpg
permalink: /program/
---

# Become a middle or high school CS teacher

Are you curious about becoming a middle or high school CS teacher in Washington state? 

We're creating a pathway for aspiring teachers to do exactly that. The program part of the University of Washington's existing 1-year Masters in Teaching (called STEP, short for [Secondary Teacher Education Program](https://education.uw.edu/programs/teacher/secondary), which starts in Spring each year. We're creating a 5th quarter add-on endorsement, which means that teacher candidates enroll in the 1-year degree, earn a first endorsement in math, science, social students, language arts, or world languages, then stay for an additional quarter to earn a second endorsement in CS. This dual-endorsement structure not only makes you a competitive candidate for teaching positions, but positions you well to teach both standalone CS courses, as well as integrate CS into other subject areas that you teach.

## Do I have to have a CS background to enroll?

No. The only CS content knowledge we expect teachers to have is some preliminary exposure to programming, through an [introductory programming course](https://www.cs.washington.edu/academics/ugrad/nonmajor-options/intro-courses) would suffice, as would any practical experience with programming. We will teach much of the CS content knowledge needed to teach a range of middle and high school courses; having more extensive CS experience will simply broaden your range.

For those with more substantial CS backgrounds (several courses, a bachelor's degree, or perhaps experience as a professional software developer), this program is an opportunity to learn foundational concepts in CS teaching.

## What courses does the endorsement include?

That additional quarter is all CS, including four courses:

* **EDTEP 577** _Justice and Equity in Computer Science Teaching_. This course covers foundational intersections between computer science content knowledge and issues of diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice. Addresses these issues in the computer science classroom, as well as society more broadly, developing critical consciousness of computer science and society. This course is taught by Professor [Amy Ko](http://faculty.washington.edu/ajko/){:target="_blank"}, who is an experienced higher education and high school CS teacher, but also a leading researcher in CS education.

* **EDTEP 590** _Teaching Computer Science in Secondary Schools_. This course develops skills in developing, rehearsing, enacting, and reflecting upon developmentally appropriate computer science lesson and unit plans. Students write learning objectives that consider prior knowledge and specific needs of a diversity of learners, developing skills to deconstruct and analyze lessons and plan the scope and sequence of longer units of study. Draws upon culturally relevant computing, project-based learning, and critical consciousness. This course is taught by Teaching Professor [Brett Wortzman](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~brettwo/){:target="_blank"}, who is an experienced high school and higher education CS teacher, as well as an extensive CS professional development provider.

* **EDTEP 574** _Assessment in Secondary Education - Computer Science_. This course Surveys approaches to formative and summative assessment of computer science knowledge from both equity and psychometrics perspectives, and impacts of assessments on identity, interest, self-efficacy, and mindset. Emphasizes deliberate practice on computer science assessment design and critique and the tradeoffs of assessment automation technologies in supporting learning. This course is taught by Ph.D. student [Jayne Everson](http://jayneeverson.com){:target="_blank"}, who has an experienced high school math, physics, and robotics teacher, and who is studying critical CS pedagogy.

* **EDTEP 602** _Field Experience Computer Science - Secondary_. Practice teaching computer science in a supervised middle or high school placement in partner schools and districts who are working to diversify the teaching field. Candidates critique their own practices and receive feedback on ways to align their practices with equity and justice teaching pedagogy. You'll be placed with a CS teacher and school in Puget Sound, likely in in one of our partner districts in Seattle Public Schools, Highline Schools, or Shoreline Schools.

# How do I get certified to teach?

By the end of the Spring, you'll take the [NES Computer Science exam](https://www.nestest.com/TestView.aspx?f=HTML_FRAG/NT315_TestPage.html){:target="_blank"}, which primarily covers CS content knowledge. Passing this exam certifies you to teach CS in Washington state. You'll have extensive support in preparing for this exam, including learning CS concepts in EDTEP 577 and study groups led by the teaching team.

# What about tuition and fees?

For the Spring 2022 and 2023 cohort (which began in Spring 2021), Spring quarter tuition, fees, and the NES exam fee will be covered by a grant the team has received from the National Science Foundation. The team is seeking funding to subsidize future cohorts.

# How do I apply?

To apply to the Secondary Masters in Teaching program, first review the [admissions requirements](https://education.uw.edu/programs/teacher/secondary/apply-now/application%20requirements) and the [online application](https://education.washington.edu/admissions/preparing-your-application-uw-college-education). All secondary candidates have a range of exams to complete prior to applying. You'll want to think carefully about which endorsement area in addition to CS you'd like to pursue (math, science, social studies, language arts, or world languages), and be sure to complete the coursework necessary for those specific endorsements prior to applying.

The [deadlines](https://education.uw.edu/admissions/deadlines?_ga=2.132379149.263362124.1621211241-27049089.1577997472) for the program are the **beginning of October** each year, for Spring start the following calendar year. That means you'll want to prepare materials and ask any questions that you have the summer before you want to apply.

Reach out to the College for any questions about the Masters in Teaching. If you have questions about the CS endorsement, you can reach Professor [Amy J. Ko](mailto:ajko@uw.edu) with any questions.
